(CREATURE ROARING)
(PANTING)
(GROWLING)
(GRUNTS)
(GASPING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(TWIGS SNAPPING)
(LOW GROWLS)
(ROARS)
(SCREAMING)
(CLANKING)
(DOOR HINGES SQUEAK)
(DOOR CLOSES)
(METAL JINGLES)
(LAUGHS)
You're late,
and your breath stinks
of wine.
I may have stopped
by the tavern
for one small glass to fortify
myself against the night air.
How goes things here?
Is all well?
No. All is not well.
I nearly died
of boredom, twice.
Finding boredom in one's work
is to be relished.
It means you are being
paid for doing nothing.
What could be better?
I didn't come to Atlantis
to be an errand boy
for rich merchants.
Tomorrow, the frankincense
will be shipped to Helios
and our work guarding it
will be done.
You won't be so sour-faced
when you have gold
in your purse,
a flagon of wine in one hand,
and a beautiful woman
in the other.
Two women! You'll need
three hands, my friend!
(LAUGHS)
Three hands!
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
You should not be here.
I need answers.
That I cannot give.
The man who was cursed
to become the Minotaur.
He told me that I have
a great destiny.
What did he mean?
The images I see are fleeting.
They can be interpreted
in many ways.
Well, then how am I
supposed to understand them?
You tell me that I was brought
to Atlantis for a reason,
but you cannot tell me
what it is?
You tell me
that my father is dead,
but not how or when he died.
You say that
all will become clear,
but what am I supposed to do
until then?
I don't understand
my place in this world!
I don't belong here.
But we have waited so many
years for your return.
What do you want from me?
It is not a question
of what I want.
Your destiny is already
unfolding before you.
How can that be
when I feel so lost?
It is only when we accept
that we are lost that we find
our true path.
I wish I could make it easier.
I will do all I can
to help you.
Why do I sense that you're not
telling me the whole truth?
Because, above anything,
I must protect you from those
who would do you harm.
You must trust in yourself.
With time,
all will become clear.
Sophia... Ah!
-Ugh!
-(BLEATING)
Oh!
(YAWNS)
For the life of me,
I cannot understand
how it happened.
One minute,
the frankincense was there.
The next, it was gone.
You got drunk and fell asleep,
didn't you?
I'm surprised
at you, Pythagoras!
What would lead you
to make such
an outrageous accusation?
The wine stain on your shirt
for a start.
And what is that
on your cheek?
It's dried goat's saliva.
Oh, you will kiss anything
once you've had a few drinks.
I wasn't kissing a goat.
I wasn't.
We can all stand round here,
debating whose fault
this is...
There's no debate.
It's your fault.
A-ha. But is it?
-Yes.
-PYTHAGORAS: Completely.
Or perhaps you will try
and blame the goat?
-(KNOCK AT DOOR)
-It's the merchant.
Don't answer it!
(POUNDING AT DOOR)
Eventually, he'll get bored
and go away.
(POUNDING ON DOOR)
Look, this is ridiculous.
We'll just have to explain
that his frankincense
was stolen.
Are you out of your mind?
No good has ever come
from being honest.
(BANGING ON DOOR)
I seek the men
who slew the Minotaur.
I came to Atlantis,
searching for my daughter...
Demetria.
It is many years
since I last saw her.
I discovered
that she'd found work
in the palace kitchens.
I went to the palace.
I was overjoyed at the thought
of seeing her.
What happened?
I was told that my daughter
is missing.
For three days now,
she's not been seen.
No one knows
what has happened to her.
I have heard stories
of your heroism
in defeating the Minotaur.
I was hoping you would find
my daughter for me.
You have undoubtedly
come to the right place.
Our bravery
and skills are unrivalled,
but such skills
do not come cheap.
I am not a rich man.
I will give you
all that I have.
As much as it saddens me,
unfortunately,
on this occasion,
we are unable to help you.
I know that I'm not long
for this world.
More than anything
I hope that I will die knowing
that my daughter is safe,
and happy, and loved.
It is my duty as her father.
If I fail her...
I will take it to my grave.
We will do everything we can
to help you find
your daughter.
Stay close.
We must hurry.
Korinna? What are you doing?
-Forgive me, my Lady.
-That doesn't answer
my question.
I'm to blame.
A young serving girl
is missing
and I promised her father
I would find out
what had happened to her.
It is forbidden for you
to be here.
You must go
before someone sees you.
I hope you find her.
Thank you.
This is Celandine.
She was the last person
to see Demetria
before she disappeared.
JASON: What more
can you tell me?
Demetria was sent
to the forest to gather herbs.
That is the last
anyone saw of her.
Did anyone search for her?
We are servants.
Our lives are of little value.
Can you take me
to where Demetria
would have gone
to gather these herbs?
I cannot neglect my duties.
I will ensure Princess Ariadne
hears of your kindness.
I will meet you
by the South Gate
when I'm finished here.
Her father
will be most grateful
for your trouble.
As am I.
KARPOS: Hercules, Hercules!
-What are you doing?
-It's Karpos, the merchant.
-Open up!
-What are we going to do?
We will take
the only sensible course
of action available to us.
I demand you let me in!
Hercules! Come here.
KARPOS: Hercules!
Would Demetria really have
come so far to fetch herbs?
Our King does not care
how far his servants walk
to fetch herbs,
so long as they are fetched.
How much further is it?
We're here.
These woods
are rich with herbs...
If you know where to look.
Is this what happened
to Demetria?
Did she die at your hand?
Where's Demetria?
What have you done with her?
She has not been harmed.
Her God will comfort
and provide for her.
Where is she?
She's in a better place.
(GROWLS)
It's hemlock.
The poison would have
killed her in moments.
Why would she take
her own life?
This engraving...
It's a thyrsus.
What's a thyrsus?
A fennel staff,
tipped with a pine cone.
Is there no limit
to your ignorance?
The thyrsus is the symbol
of the God, Dionysus.
The cook must have been
a maenad.
She would rather die
than reveal their secrets
to you.
-Who are these maenads?
-They're the female followers
of Dionysus.
They have a temple
high in the mountains,
in the forest of Nysa.
It is said to be
a magical realm.
Any man who sets foot there
is killed by their satyrs.
-Satyrs?
-The servants of Dionysus.
It's said they feed
on human flesh.
But what would these maenads
want with Demetria?
They take young girls
to initiate into the ways
of their cult.
If the maenads have Demetria,
then they will be holding her
in their temple.
And that is a place
no man should wish to go.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(DOOR CLANKS)
(ALL CHANTING
IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(CHANTING)
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(SNARLING)
(WOMAN SPEAKS
IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(CHANTING CONTINUES)
You desired to know
the secrets of our rites.
No. Please. I was lost.
I took the wrong path...
Our rites will be revealed
to you.
And you will take them
to your grave.
(WOMEN ULULATING)
(GROANS)
No!
(SATYRS SNARLING)
We must assume that
Demetria has been initiated
into the Cult of Dionysus.
-No.
-I'm truly sorry.
There must be some mistake.
I cannot believe that is to be
my daughter's fate.
It cannot be.
I won't allow it.
This was not meant to be...
PYTHAGORAS: I will make
an infusion of magnolia
and mimulus.
It will, at least, soothe him.
No. Rest. Rest.
You need to regain
your strength.
I'm most grateful.
You have shown great kindness.
I've done nothing
but give you bad news.
You did all you could.
You don't understand
what it is to be a father
and know that you will never
see your child again.
I know what it is to search
for someone you love
and not find them.
You don't even know
if she's alive!
She could well be dead!
And even if she's not dead,
she'd be initiated.
She'd be more likely
to tear you limb from limb.
I gave Itheus my word
that I would try
and rescue her.
No man has entered
the Forest of Nysa and lived
to tell the tale.
I will have no part
in this madness!
(DOOR SLAMS)
Why, in the name of the Gods,
is the old man sleeping
in my bed?
He is too weak
to return to his home.
And, as you're not coming
with us, you can stay here
and you can look after him.
Right!
Not only are you risking
your lives
for a penniless old man,
but you're leaving me
to nurse him?
Am I the only one of us
with any sanity left?
You are blinded
by a foolish sense of duty.
But you are blessed to have
such an honourable friend,
because I have decided,
against my better judgment,
to accompany you.
So, perhaps we should leave
by the North Gate?
KARPOS: Hercules! Hercules!
Come out! You thief!
(PANTING)
You realize Karpos
will still be after you
when we return to Atlantis?
If we return to Atlantis.
So, your cunning plan
to avoid paying your debts
is to get yourself killed?
That's it. I'm a genius.
We fake our own deaths.
You cannot collect a debt
from a dead man.
We could change our names,
grow beards...
I'm not sure
I can even grow a beard!
Then you're on your own,
Pythagoras.
HERCULES: We can grow beards,
big beards.
So, this is
the forest of Nysa.
There's no shame
in turning back.
There's some shame,
but I could happily live
with that.
I've heard stories
of the maenads'
magical powers.
I heard that they have talons
for fingers.
-And eyes as black
as the night.
-And that they bathe in blood.
And devour the organs
of those they've slain.
And I heard that they can draw
milk and honey from streams.
Milk and honey
from streams? Ridiculous!
That's what I heard.
(RUSTLING)
We should get some sleep.
I'll take first watch.
Sleep well.
(GULPING)
(BELCHES)
(RUSTLING)
(SIGHS)
Hello...
Wait!
I mean you no harm.
You have nothing to fear.
My name is Hercules.
You may have heard of me,
for I'm well known
in these parts.
(GROWLING)
(YELLS)
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Lord Dionysus,
accept this offering...
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(SNARLS)
(PANTING)
(PANTS)
(GRUNTS)
Shh! You're a maenad.
You're one of them.
Shh, shh. Please, please.
(GROWLING)
I have no quarrel with you.
I like you maenads.
I always have.
What are you doing?
Saving your life.
-Pray that this works,
or they will kill us both.
-Thank you.
-Well?
-The satyrs found him.
I drank of his blood
and made an offering of him
to Dionysus.
Jason!
It's Hercules. He's gone.
What if the maenads have him?
What if we're too late?
-HERCULES: Pythagoras!
-Hercules?
-Pythagoras!
-Where are you?
Why were you up a tree?
I was hiding.
And then I was sleeping.
We thought the maenads
had you.
They very nearly did.
I was keeping watch
when I heard a sound
from the forest.
-And then I saw her...
-Who?
A beautiful girl,
through the trees.
I called to her, but she fled.
I chased after her.
She ran like a gazelle.
It was all I could do to keep
up with her.
I ran, and ran.
And then I found her,
standing in a clearing,
bathed in moonlight.
She was clearly terrified.
I'm not surprised if you were
chasing her through the woods.
I assured her
that I meant her no harm.
-I went to comfort her,
but then she...
-What?
She turned into one
of those monkey creatures.
A satyr.
You never saw such
an ugly beast in your life.
I must have been drugged.
Because then
I was surrounded by maenads.
They were to make
an offering of me.
But I was too fast for them.
-Really?
-Yes, really.
I ran for my life.
I was nearly caught again,
but she saved me.
Who? The girl?
I thought you said
that she was a satyr?
She was.
This was another girl.
A woman, a vision of beauty,
the like of which
I have never seen.
I owe her my life.
How can you be sure
that she wasn't a satyr too?
I think I can tell
the difference between a woman
and a monkey.
Most of the time.
It would truly be a sign
from the Gods
if she was
the old man's daughter.
You don't know
if she's Demetria.
You don't even know
if she's human.
I am certain of it.
It's the hand of fate!
We must rescue her.
I don't see any guards.
Well, they don't need guards
because no-one is stupid
enough to go in there.
Speak for yourself.
You know, I've never seen him
so keen to risk his own life.
If this girl turns out
to be a satyr,
he's going to look
truly stupid.
It's her! I'm certain of it!
Hercules! Wait!
Hello. It's me.
Ah.
It turns out it wasn't her.
(DOOR OPENS)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
The High Priestess
wishes to see you.
It's her.
This is the man who you claim
to have made an offering of.
How is it he stands before me?
I will never be one of you.
I would rather die
than take part in your rites.
You have sinned
against your God.
It is for Dionysus
to judge you now.
He is not my God.
Then your death
will merely mark
the start of your suffering.
No. No!
Please. Please! No, no, no!
-No. Take me, not her.
-You will meet your fate
soon enough.
No, no! No!
Jason. No, Jason!
(GROWLING)
Get behind me.
-Why don't they attack?
-I don't know.
They're afraid of you.
-Who are you?
-Jason.
-Your father sent us
to rescue you.
-My father is long dead.
-You're not Demetria?
-No. My name is Medusa.
-Why do you look at me
like that?
-Your name...
I thought I'd heard it
somewhere before.
I should have stopped them.
I should have thrown myself
into the pit!
Then you would also be dead.
(SIGHS)
(SNARLING)
I have seen them tear
the flesh from animals
and men alike.
I have never seen them scared.
-How long have you been
held captive here?
-It is over ten days now.
And how is it you are able
to resist the maenads' rites?
You're unaffected?
It seems you cannot
be enchanted by rituals
that you cannot hear.
(DOOR OPENS)
How can it be that you live?
Perhaps your god is not
as powerful as you believe.
(GRUNTING)
(GROANS)
They'll be holding
your friends in the cells.
We must hurry!
You have been a good
and loyal friend, Pythagoras.
You have often been
a terrible friend,
but I would rather spend
my last moments with you
than anyone else.
(KEYS JANGLING)
-Jason?
-I believed you to be dead.
And they believed
you to be a monkey.
I cannot tell you how relieved
I am that neither is true.
It is thanks to your friend.
I owe him my life.
I'm alive too.
-Then I hope you've planned
a way out of here.
-We must find Demetria.
She's been initiated.
She will not leave with you.
If the girl is happy
to stay...
I gave her father my word
that I would return her
to Atlantis.
Surely, in this circumstance,
with our lives at stake,
it's only right that
you go back on your word?
I'm not leaving this place
without her.
Where can she can be found?
I'll take you to her.
(WHISPERS)
JASON: Demetria?
Your father sent us.
We've come to take you
back to Atlantis.
I will never return with you.
Your father's sick.
I'm afraid he's...
There's no time for debate.
And you're carrying her.
They cannot be allowed
to escape with knowledge
of our sacred rites.
I swear, this night,
we will honour Dionysus
with an offering
of their blood.
-Thank you.
-The pleasure's all mine.
Is she not the most
beautiful woman
you have ever seen?
She's very pretty.
Ow!
Is Medusa a common name?
I don't ever recall
meeting anyone with that name.
Why do you ask?
I was just curious.
Tell me, do you
have family in Atlantis?
No. I was traveling there
to seek work
when the maenads abducted me.
I would be happy
to show you the city.
-(RUSTLING)
-What is it?
-Listen.
-(SHRIEKING)
They are hunting us.
(DISTANT SNARLS)
We'll never out-run them.
Not if we're carrying her.
Then might I suggest
an obvious solution?
(SNARLING)
Do not make a sound.
-(SCREAMS)
-Shh!
Demetria!
Oh!
I mean you no harm.
(GROWLING)
You have violated
the sanctity of our temple.
Dionysus demands
that you pay with your life.
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(ALL SNARLING)
You should fear me,
as they do.
I am Jason,
slayer of the Minotaur.
Demetria is to return
to Atlantis with me.
It is forbidden.
Then I will slay you
as I did the Earth Bull.
I will tear down your temple
and I will scatter
your followers
to the four winds!
(SCATTERED SNARLS)
I am taking you home
to your father.
(DAGGER UNSHEATHES)
(GRUNTS)
They cannot harm you now.
There is nothing for me
in Atlantis.
Your father is dying.
He wants more than anything
just to look on you
and to know that you are safe.
No!
And what of your father?
He is already dead to me.
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(GROANS)
(CHOKES)
(SPEAKS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)
What did she say?
I don't know.
I think she cursed you.
You have returned?
Demetria... She is with you?
No.
You have found her?
Where is she?
Your daughter...
Your daughter is in Helios.
You know Demetria?
You know her?
I was held captive with her
until Jason and his friends
rescued us.
Demetria has gone to Helios
to be with a boy.
She wanted more than anything
to return to Atlantis...
To be with you.
But she has a new life
in Helios.
She is happy?
She is in love.
Then I will find peace
in the afterlife.
I am deeply indebted to you.
You owe me nothing.
All that I have
in this world...
Is yours.
Demetria asked me to care
for you in her place.
JASON: You told me
the path I choose to follow
would become clear.
Now, I'm more confused
than ever.
I was unable to save Demetria.
I failed.
You believed that the path
you were following
would lead to one girl,
and yet you found another.
Perhaps that was
your true purpose.
From my time
in the other world,
there were stories
of someone named Medusa.
What is to become of her?
I believe you already know
the answer to that question.
She has done no wrong.
I will not see her harmed.
Medusa can no more escape
her destiny than you can
escape yours.
Her fate is inextricably
bound to your own.
I don't understand.
Why is my destiny
so important?
Because the fate
of all of Atlantis
rests in your hands.
Why? Why me?
For the same reason that
the satyrs did not attack you.
You're not like other men.
You will realize that
soon enough.
It is Poseidon
you have wronged,
as such, you have been
called before the bulls.